[Music]  the music world is stunned  her fans are heartbroken but at age 31  the top of her career Celine Dion is  saying goodbye  you are leaving show business out of  here what made her want to walk away  then Celine talks candidly about her  husband's battled with cancer when he  took my head in his hands and he looked  at me and he said Sinan I need you for  first time in my life I felt like at  what's needed plus a once-in-a-lifetime  surprise for this special guy  [Applause]  Celine Dion a farewell performance next  [Music]  here we go  [Music]  [Applause]  [Music]  [Applause]  believe me I'm only saying goodbye now  and she's here to give us one of her  final performances before she takes an  extended break she is one of the most  popular singers in the world and now  she's ready to give it all up the young  age of 31 we're gonna find out why  Celine is making an exit from show  business at the top of her career and  we'll also talk to her husband about his  recent bout with cancer so Celine is  going to start the show by singing some  of our favorite song  [Applause]  [Music]  [Applause]  [Music]  [Applause]  [Music]  all you have to do is believe we pray  [Music]  Oh  [Music]  [Music]  No  [Music]  [Applause]  [Music]  / oç your  [Music]  to  [Music]  means  [Music]  ever  peel  [Music]  yup  you  [Music]  [Music]  [Applause]  [Music]  [Applause]  [Music]  [Applause]  [Music]  [Applause]  [Music]  [Applause]  [Music]  Wow girl Wow  we'll find out why Celine saying goodbye  [Applause]  [Music]  what I want to hear from your own lips  because I keep reading about it from  your own lips  you are leaving show business you are  retiring or are you just out of here  really no no well what I wanted you know  like I guess you can't have everything  in life you have to make you have to  make a choice yeah so right now you know  I always wanted to have a career I  wanted to sing and sing sing sing and  sing and then I've been doing this for  18 years and I'm realizing that I missed  so many wonderful things I'm I can't  wait to meet life show business is not  reality it's wonderful it's it's fantasy  you're on stage wardrobe lights sound be  ready both everything limousines  whatever the best hotels and room  service and and I'm really looking  forward to midlife and that means I want  to be with my family my friends with  Renee I would like to think seriously  about having a family and  people calling retirement tell me it's  not retirement cuz retirement means you  are going home and you're never coming  back  retirement means it's over so would you  say it's a leave of absence you're  taking a leave a gap exactly I don't  know for how long it can be two years  three five I don't know how long but  it's gonna be for sure minimum two years  a while it's gonna be a while because I  need to be with my family to be with the  people that I love very much I I can't  wait to just have no pressure because at  one point when you're in show business  for so long my private life and my show  business life is the same light okay  and right now I don't know what to say  anymore I don't know what to talk about  I've done songs after songs and without  something sounding pretentious saying  that we've had lots of success we've  sold lots of records every million yeah  not attention that's just a fact it's a  fact but I don't want people to to get  bored you've seen me and hearing me and  mainly I don't want to be no but I don't  I don't want to go on stage and not be  honest mmm people pay lots of money to  come in here you sing  there's no way before the show you again  you have you say to yourself oh not  another one tonight you this is not this  is it can't happen mm-hmm and I'm not  feeling like this but I don't want that  to happen to me so you're gonna take  some time off to meet life and do what  when you meet it because I know I mean I  have a you know relatively busy life  nothing like yours but most people  assume most people assume riding around  in limousines staying a great hotels  it's wonderful there it is I'm not  saying I'm not saying that it's not but  it's not but people who are outside of  their house all the time all the time  with no suitcases  room service all the time away from home  there's no place like home and and and I  understand that the people who are at  home every single day of the year  cooking three meals a day cleaning their  house ironing I wish they had some of  that they wish to have suits cases and  limousine yeah I know and that's what I  mean by saying but it's not real you  have to make it interesting because  irony to balance yes yes I read where  you said you've been around the world  several times but you didn't see  anything and that's right I I go I go to  Europe and tonight you live like tonight  and normally when I leave for concerts  I'm not talking I get there I can't  scream when I see the FL Tower it's so  beautiful because my whole life has been  from here to here mmm I have other parts  I have feelings and I have dreams other  dreams I'm not holding on to a song  anymore  I've been in show business all my life  and I love dearly to sing and this is  what I'm gonna miss the most the fans  and being on stage with and for them but  I can't just wait to just say oh let's  party and I lose my voice let me be sick  I'm gonna catch a cold and it's okay I'm  not gonna take antibiotics I'm gonna  stay home and have some chicken soup and  I'm gonna put some socks and I'm gonna  watch TV and if you want to have your  girlfriend's over and drink wine all  night long you can it's all gonna be  alright  [Applause]  I gotta say that I know Renee as a  manager so well and I guess he knows me  as an artist very very well - I can't  wait - and I just discovered the husband  I just made the husband not too long ago  really even though you've been married  five you even though we've been loving  each other like crazy and respect each  other I've been needing Renee for the  first time and I can't wait to be with  this man I know he's proud of me when  I'm onstage and he's like oh you know  he's so happy but I want to impress him  with the woman I can be not the same  girl talking the talk today but girl is  ready to do some cookin literally like  you really want to be like all the  viewers right now who are like trying to  get their kids stuff up out of the floor  and cook at the same time and watch you  and talk to their girlfriends on the  that's what you want I want to be home  and do some cooking and stay home and  have no schedule and no pressure and say  let's go for a picnic and drive my own  car and pick my own tomatoes  really  when when Rene got sick Rene was sick  you all know and you were all recovered  and better now  what she's saying about what she just  said about she wants you to see the  woman in her and admire the woman in her  how does that make you feel great  believe me I saw the woman in her before  but we just spent two months after she  came back from Europe and I had finished  my treatments and we spent two months  alone in the house for the first time  cuz usually who's in there well we have  some people take care of the house but  normally for me to have a two months  break two months never happened and she  she's a great cook by the way I'm good  with leftovers we were very close we we  discovered each other again and you know  we we took that decision before I got  sick and the fact that I was sick made  it even more real that it's time to stop  and enjoy each other in our families and  there you know we used to plan our lives  in we used to blend a future okay in six  months the new album is gonna come out  in a year and a half you'll do another  French album and then in two years  you'll do and with those we kind of  missed each other  yeah cuz your whole life revolved around  the next release and the next assignment  form exactly and and when we stayed home  for two months when he took my head in  his hands and he looked at me and he  said Celine I need you for first first  time in my life I felt like I was needed  mmm I made me feel great  [Applause]  cancelled the series of concerts to be  with her husband Rene during his six  weeks of cancer treatments and she  resumed her tour this summer in Europe  but Rene who was still recovering was  unable to attract to the globe they  devised a special way to keep in touch  it was hard for me because I wanted to  be home he's the person I love the most  and I wanted to be there for him she did  do a few shows and we managed to have  these shows where I could see them by  satellite from my home and on stage  we're using earplugs ear monitors and in  these ear monitors Rene could talk to me  sometimes I would say that was great so  you know I love you or things like that  and we had a signal for me to know that  she understood and it was you know she  was going like this and I was like this  so I was singing it over all those times  you stood by me and I can't go anywhere  there was no foundation on my nose at  the end of the night like this  it really did because I you wanted me to  go and I was like I can't believe this  is the place I want to be with you now  when you need me I need to be with you  and he said it's gonna be more pressure  for me if you don't go because it's been  planted stadiums it's so huge and and I  couldn't believe that I was going to be  away from him and that thing was it made  me it gave me strength to do it like I  knew he was watching I was doing every  show for him and I know he was there for  me I'm telling you I some night I wanted  to just go like down anymore about his  recent bout the cancer but first one  song from Celine's new CD has extra  special meaning for her and Renee it's  called all the way and it is their song  and here's Celine singing it with Frank  Sinatra yes Frank it's almost the year  2000 so anything's possible take a look  [Music]  [Applause]  in between  what  [Applause]  [Music]  Oh  [Music]  [Applause]  it won an Oscar in 1992 when people  heard that Celine was taking a break  he sent along this message to you I've  been fortunate enough to work with some  extraordinarily talented female  vocalists but by far in terms of ability  and range she's the very best I've ever  worked with  the view on Celine and not lover you  can't be around her and not fall in love  with her if you were men I can tell you  that I know that she loves what she does  and she's committed to that and it'll be  there for her when she comes back when  she decides to and she'll want to at  some point if she doesn't I'm gonna  write a great song the song is gonna be  so great she's gonna have to come back  and see  [Applause]  all the way which has all of our old  favorites and some brand new songs  exactly yeah why don't people  what are your all-time favorites for  yourself though the song with Frank and  how do that way well today like you said  with the technology is you can do lots  of things and Frank is been our favorite  long time and all the way it's been kind  of our saying when we do something we go  all the way you know like we do it or we  don't do it we're having dinner candles  music and Frank's singing and you do  that you do the candles music yeah you  take your time I can't that's why I want  to stop because I want to do every night  every night there's candles on the table  with you did we spent together the only  two months and my life that I was  hopeful yeah we do that when we're home  in we dance somewhere too in the house  and we're dancing so it's great it's  really beautiful right now the woman who  is watching you right now and she's  picking up her baby's toys out the fire  and I was gonna had danced with her in  the past several years anyway Frank was  singing and he said it's too bad that  you couldn't sing with him you know and  I said yeah that's I would I would have  loved to and then we're hearing his  voice and and he said I don't think on  his duet album he did that song and he  said I think I have and then I it was  gone for a couple of seconds and the  next day I met mrs. Sinatra a few years  ago and she had told me that Frank loved  Celine so the next day I call mrs.  Sinatra and talk to her about the idea  of doing this and she loved it and you  were able to combine the butt of the  voices yeah digitally that's fantastic  tell me were you scared going through  the cancer  yeah of course  when they tell you that you have cancer  it's scary but the cancer was it it's a  they call it squamous it's in the truth  here mhm  and right now I'm touching wood I went  to an exam 21st of October and they told  me I was cancer-free  when you go through something like this  it's it's um it's also putting lots of  pressure on the family and friends but  when they say - you have to wait five  years to make sure because you have to  go through tests every few months and  then it takes five years before being  cancer-free but if you say to yourself  I'm gonna wait five years before doing  and go on and do something you you're  gonna drive yourself you're gonna kill  yourself mm-hmm so the way he's thinking  and I think it's wonderful like he's  giving himself like a piece of pie like  three months mm-hmm right now I have to  go to a test for the first year every  three months so I lived three months at  a time time and once I go to the test  it's over it's more so than that don't  it hasn't it put you well I've heard  this from lots of other people maybe  this is also true for you it puts you in  today it makes you live this moment  it changes your own vision of life the  fact that she is stopping the 31st of  December it makes it even more wonderful  because we're gonna taste life really  for the first time and we know what  could happen you know it could happen  like this you never know what could  happen so you're gonna work more  seriously on making babies can told me  girlfriend  count on me yes really oh for sure cuz  you wanna yeah  salines in showbiz buddies the young men  of in sake has something to say about  Selena's upcoming sabbatical more with  Celine Dion next  [Applause]  [Music]  [Applause]  [Music]  hi Celine it's us the guys from NSYNC  and we want to wish you all the best you  will be missed in your time off Celine  you have always been and always will be  my favorite female vocalist of all times  have fun  congratulations on everything and much  success in the near future work on that  golf P I love your music and all but I'm  kind of glad you're leaving for a couple  of years because we'd really like to  have a number one  [Applause]  and you can see them performing with  Celine on her upcoming CBS special  that's on November 24th on CBS Celine  has been on tour as we were talking  earlier since she was 16 years old and  it's now coming to an end her final  performance will be New Year's Eve in  Montreal yes that's right Oh home yeah  and I'll bet it's how is that gonna be  well I think it's gonna be very  emotional for me  it's gonna be hard because I love to be  this is my favorite thing I love to be  on stage so I'll be on stage with the  people who did applaud me for the first  time my first fans and my second family  musicians and technicians were a hundred  and five people turned together and  their second family to me so I'm gonna  miss being on stage of course I'm not  leaving because I'm bored I'm leaving  because I'm about to I want to live  something else mm-hmm but I need to  refuel let's put it that way I need to  have to refuel again to come back and  and have things to talk about and create  balance exactly and when you're 30 years  old 31 years old I look back sometimes  when I say I don't want to grow old with  gold records and like money and the  success and all that it's it's  excitement and it's it's nice but my  family I'm the youngest of my family and  you're afraid of losing people you want  to make sure you take the best of all of  them they're your roots they're your  origins they're your foundation I took a  piece of so many people people that  surrounded me all my life I took the  best out of them and I need to to make  sure that I can have a good foundation  solid for me to go on with the rest of  my life I have so much respect for you  for tonight I prefer to just stop while  I'm there with success and say I'm going  home with my gold medal and enjoy but in  a  look back and say oh I've done this and  got it all that was so much fun I oh I  miss that uh-oh I look good there or  terrible or you know what I mean like  think about what I've went through and  enjoy it instead of wait till you go  down like this and then coke right well  I should have stopped before and yeah  you know I don't know I'm trying to make  another hit yeah yeah yeah staying in to  make another hit well just last week  Selene gave her final us consort concert  in Fort Lauderdale and we were there The  Oprah Show cameras take a look  touring has been a way of life for  Celine she and her band have been around  the world three times performed in  hundreds of cities  tonight Selena's saying goodbye as she  performs her final concert on her US  tour before every show there's a  soundcheck  and a final dance rehearsal the band has  become Selene second family many have  been with her for 15 years no my sister  she does my hair she fixed my suitcase  she orders my breakfast she has it all  she has some Goodluck charms that have  traveled with her through the years this  one here has a special story she was  with us at a show like 12 years ago she  was drawn on the stage and I put it  backstage on twins mirror and it stayed  there for all these years we brought it  everywhere she always invites a local  children's choir to sing with her for  her opening number are you ready  five minutes before the show Celine  meets with each member of her van great  look at them they're depressed to hide  her entrance Selene is wheeled on stage  and a custom-built music case  [Music]  [Applause]  she plays for two hours enjoying still  every minute  in Montreal where in Montreal consider  to the courts  what stadium is big enough to hold it  what stake we're gonna do this at the  Molson centre where there's hockey games  and so it's not a huge place but it's  like what twenty twenty to twenty two  thousand people it's like also nice to  will be there just thinking about it and  you know sometimes you do stadiums and  it's wonderful but if you have to be at  the 31st of December for New Year's you  want an intimate place yeah as as small  as possible in a way to make it like in  a living room with your brothers and  sister brothers and sisters yeah  over the years we've received a lot of  mail from viewers who've been moved by  Celine's music Brian Clews was watching  our show the last time Celine was here  and wrote us this letter take a look  dear Oprah I'm sitting in my hospital  room going through a bone-marrow  transplant for lymphoma I'm a grown man  crying after watching Celine Dion sing  the theme to Titanic on your show  I found out about Celine in one of your  previous shows and fell in love with her  music voice and great attitude for life  and family at that time I was just  diagnosed with non-hodgkins lymphoma  hearing Celine sing some of her songs  had me bawling her song because you  loved me couldn't have hit home more  perfectly about the way I feel about my  wife Kathy listening to a song wasn't  sure where my future was going how I was  gonna survive it the cancer and fight it  and things like that it just really hit  home after the show I went right out and  bought the CD and gave it to my wife to  this day Kathy and I can't listen to the  song because you loved me without crying  Kathy was a strong loving woman he's a  special special lady in my life my heart  and soul couldn't imagine a day without  her she's everything to me Brian and  Kathy we thought your letter was so  sweet  because up a little surprise for you I  know we've every day on this show we  thought your letter was so sweet we  wanted to do something special for you  so  [Music]  I am so happy for you guys  [Applause]  because the nice mule they risk Alton  heard about you and are treating you to  their luxurious century package which  includes listen to this this is a free  concert cocktail party - monogrammed  robes breakfast and more at the  ritz-carlton there in Montreal not to  mention you're gonna be there for the  final the first time on TV  filling find a singer new single that's  the way it is we'll be right back  [Applause]  [Music]  [Applause]  Selene siggy is called all the way and  here she is singing her new single for  the first time on TV that's the way it  is  [Music]  I can read your mind and I know your  story  si why don't you go in the bee lips  sorry but I know  [Music]  because you can  [Music]  easy  [Music]  [Applause]  [Music]  it stops - car  [Music]  forget your son  [Music]  [Applause]  [Music]  [Applause]  [Music]  [Applause]  [Music]  [Applause]  [Music]  [Applause]  [Music]  [Applause]  [Music]  [Applause]  [Music]  I mean yeah I mean embers are cool  [Applause]  [Music]  we cut back on carbohydrates for a whole  month I want an apple bag 50 of us try  the plan results are in did we lose  weight they've lost a total of 569  I've lost 19 and a half pounds this  section actually gains 23 pounds four  pounds is not bad low carb grade that's  tomorrow when we come back though she  died in my arms  I sang to her ear she stopped to let go  very slowly it was a day that changed  Celine forever stay with us so although  Celine is taking a break from show  business she will never stop singing  just like the high notes we love to hear  her hit music will always keep Celine  spirit soaring  [Music]  I was on stage two first time at five  years old and I wanted to connect with  people they filled me with joy and they  made me realize that this is what I  wanted to do the music brings a lot of  joy to me it's a way for me to express  myself  [Music]  I just did a show and they filled me  it's incredible  with so much joy and hope and dreams I'm  gonna go to bed tonight and I'm gonna  still hear the applause every time I  pick a song I do it with my heart and I  I want to feel it I want to be sincere  [Music]  I need to give something back because of  the success I have I can't just take it  all in and to me it's it's very natural  and normal for me to do something for a  cause and of course it's cystic fibrosis  because we had somebody in the family  who passed away my niece Kevin she was  16 years old and she passed away Kenyon  offered me probably the most beautiful  gift that a person can receive in his  life she put me in contact with heaven  she died in my arms my sign to her ear  she started to let go very slowly what a  tear coming down and she let go very  very soft and peaceful  [Music]  vicious one  your endless journey has begun everybody  can relate to that song because one day  or another you lose people that you love  and it is painful yeah but that song  helped me I cried while I sang it and it  helped me after music is very powerful  it's like therapeutic and it's it can  help you to cry because you need to let  it out it can escort you to something  painful that you have to go through it  can fulfill you with so much joy that's  fantastic we'll be right back  [Music]  [Applause]  she started singing and I was like wow I  could imagine anybody else singing a  song uh Celine Dion you can't do  anything but love her and that's why I  feel that everyone's gonna miss her  around the world I mean because her  voice is it's incredible when we sat at  the piano that's when I became to know  Celine and not just the leanin di you  know the star but the person when we  said at the piano and she was singing  along with me and make up harmonies and  back and forth just trading ideas and  just having fun and that's really what  is what it's all about this music thing  we're gonna miss you so late  [Music]  the Peabody motel in Orlando Florida  thank you so much Celine thanks for  sharing this hour with us and I think  we've all come away with a deeper  respect for you not just as a singer but  as a woman for having the courage to  truly live the life of your dreams  that's what it's really all about and I  think if you can use your celebrity to  show other people that living the light  that you choose to live is a most  important thing and it's all worth it  thank you so much  [Applause]  Oh  [Music]  [Applause]  [Music]  [Applause]  [Music]  [Applause]  [Music]  [Applause]  [Music]  yes fly our official carrier American  Airlines American an American Eagle  provide service to dozens of warm  destinations in Florida Mexico the  Bahamas and the Caribbean American  Airlines something special to the firm  closed captioning provided by the maker  of the phone product band-aid brand Korn  relief it relieves painful pressure